Transferring Schools [https://www.bostonpublicschools.org/enrollment/welcome-services/transferring-schools]
In BPS, a transfer is a student moving from one Boston Public School to another Boston Public School. If your child currently attends a school outside of Boston or attends a private, parochial, or charter school, please follow the instructions for registration [https://www.bostonpublicschools.org/fs/pages/2563] provided here.
To submit a transfer, a parent must visit a Welcome Center
with a photo ID.
The transfer period for the 2024-2025 school year ends on November 30, 2024 for students in grades 1-12 and will end on January 31, 2025 for students in grades K0-K2.
You are now able to submit transfer requests for the 2024-2025 school year. Please visit www.bostonpublicschools.org/register or contact a Welcome Center [https://www.bostonpublicschools.org/fs/pages/2567] for more information. 
Please note:
Due to the limited availability of seats, transfers are not guaranteed. If available, students will be assigned to their top-ranked school with an available seat. 
If a transfer does not go through, the student will be placed on the waitlist for their requested school.
Prior to August 1, students can be placed on mutliple waitlists for all schools they have ranked.
After August 1, students will remain on only one waitlist. This waitlist will be for their highest ranked school, unless a parent contacts a Welcome Center to specify otherwise. 
A transfer request will replace any prior assignments, rankings, and previous waitlists. So, if a transfer is granted for the current school year, your child will lose their current school year assignment. 
Similarly, if a transfer is granted for the next school year, your child will lose any prior assignments for the next school year. 
If your child is assigned to a high-level-of-need special education program (full inclusion or substantially separate), transfer requests for the 2024-2025 school year will be reviewed in late July/early August of 2024 and then again in November of 2024. If your child is in a kindergarten program, requests will also be reviewed in January 2025. Please note that the transfer request policy applies to students moving from one program to the same program at a different school and does not apply to students who need a different school and/or program as determined by the IEP Team.